Armani Willis
Professor Ann Grow
12.20.2.16.9:14.pm

Week 11: Final Exam

1. How would you answer someone who asked: "Why should I study ethics if I want to be an accountant?" (Ch. 1)

Without proper understanding of ethical perspectives, accountants would have limited understanding 
required for dealing with the material that they are accounting for. For example, a big and long running
accounting operation such as the ones required for banks and law firms can easily publish false data or publish doctored data in its own right, if that firm did not have the ability to see the reasons why an account took the form that it did, what form it was likely going to take, or  if this measure wont lead to long term discrepancies. As surely as a company would lose profits if it was not deemed responsible
for its profit making and margin maintenance ventures, an accountancy of bad ethics would find it 
very difficult to communicate between the different operations of a business, and quickly lose its
validity. Therefore, a responsible accountant should study ethics for the sake of determining whether
an accounting decision is ethically valid, since it would verify a person's responsibility to the health of the business.

In cases where a person notices something that is not ethically valid, or worse, an ethically invalid profit depleting venture, and was not listened to, this is another example of the failure of a firm that 
may understand accounting principles without considering the long term health of the business franchise. Thus promoting a person to a higher position with weak ethical standards counts as a long term ethically invalid profit depleting venture, and in that way, the study of ethics directly affects your upward mobility.

2. What standards should be used to establish a fair wage?  Or, what factors determine what someone deserves for wages? (Ch. 2)

Working from the content in chapter 2, there was no point in investing in the individual of a company that was going to fail anyway. It is a situation that reminds me of a nuclear meltdown. The machinery is melting down because the atoms are getting stronger, and instead of directing their forces through the appropriate machineries, all of that force turns into heat and it burns down the thing that made them 
enormously wealthy in the first place.

Taking hints from these two examples, I can forecast the future of this country as a similar profit making venture, where ethical values are burned up in the battle for power. The solution for this, of course, is for the people making the money to realize that they do not own a single cent of any dollar that they make, since this line of thinking would establish yourself as a competing nation. 

No matter how much money there is to make, it is a simple measure of the ability for the business to
operate amoung other businesses, and that measure occurs in ratios. Thus, a fair wage should be a 
ratio between how much money that person made for the company and how much money that company made for the economy.

In the case of aig, they would have started to lose money much earlier under my system, since that would mean that the company would be losing money through disproportionate payouts according to the comparison with that ratio.



3. How would you describe the managerial philosophy of Walmart; what do you see as the aims, values and goals of Walmart? Are they ethical? (Ch. 3)

Walmart tries its best to serve its employees as well as its customers in terms of providing services to its employees that they cannot get from employment at other companies. Walmart hopes that in doing so, it can better retain its employees and optimize productivity by making employees happy. 

Walmart stores hopes to be the one major physical resource market chain that serves the needs of all the
customers and employees and makes them happy. It values productivity and prides the products that it
sells. Its goals are to open ass many malls as possible, keep them open for as long as possible, and sell
the most products of the most different kinds as possible.

Walmart's goals are not ethical because it values the productivity of walmart without considering its physical effects on nearby landed resources. Fulfillment of its goals often required it to import materials and other resources from other states or countries to suit the needs of walmart. There have been times where the presence of walmart drove up the prices of many materials in nearby areas for places such as stores and it has even affected hospitals and the stock market.

4. What factors other than wages would influence you to change jobs? to take a job? to quit a job? (ch. 5)

Factors for me changing jobs would include my own ambitions, how it would affect others, profit margins of other companies, and access to transportation. Factors for me taking a job would be upward mobility, service to my surroundings, the responsibilities of the job, and other jobs. Factors for me quitting a job would include corruption, lack of mobility, character of the people, or work hazards.

5. Explain two reasons why the lowest price might not be ethically the best price. (Ch. 8)

This question depends on whether you are setting the lowest price, or whether you are buying for the lowest price. Ethically, a buyer needs to be considerate of how the price of whatever item got that way, and why. 

Ethically, setting a product to be bought or sold at the lowest price would not be feasible with respect to the price setting patterns of other markets, especially if it puts the profitability of the market well below the red line for the sake of projected increase of buyers. 

It is also no ethically feasible to buy something well below market price if it is set that way because of outsourcing, ponzi schemes, forced labour, or trade embargoes. These tactics negatively affect the market by endorsement of tactics that are destructive to the market and to the people, and eventually effectively stifle and drive away legitimate business. 

6. What issue that was discussed in the course seems to you to have the most importance to  your present or possible future in business? and why.

The issue discussed that has the most importance to me would be the topic relating to the ethics of upward mobility. For several reasons, the way jobs are dispensed in modern day society is stifling to the spirit and limits the productivity of the total work force. For instance, if a bachelor of finance is fired for whatever reason, and gets another job as a dishwasher. The economy spent on a finance bachelor is wasted on the rate that he would have to pay back his tuition. 

This is why it is important to assign people different kinds of jobs as a way to constantly get to know new people and gain a more whole understanding of the market he is participating in. For instance, I do not see why a person cannot be a master's student in biology, and a bachelor in medicine at the same time, or a school teacher cannot teach more than one field of his expertise easily at the same time. Often, teachers are students themselves, and this brings up the question of why mobility should stop at your major. It is limiting to people and economies.
