Phil 207 work anthology

week 3:

Chapter 2 of the text presents three ways in which an action can be justified as ethical or not: UTILITARIANISM which bases its decisions on the consequences of an action with a goal of achieving the greatest good for the greatest number; PRINCIPLE-BASED ETHICS,  which looks to such principles as duty, obligation, commitment, or responsibility as criteria for the justification of actions; and VIRTUE ETHICS which  according to the text, p. 41, "seeks a full and detailed description of those character traits or virtues that would constitute a good and full human life."
The chapter begins with issues of salaries and bonuses paid to CEO's in many large corporations, especially as in the case of AIG.  There are many ethical professionals in the business world who support these large payments; likewise, many who disagree.

WITH REFERENCE TO ONE OR MORE OF THE THEORIES EXPLAINED IN THE TEXT, EVALUATE THE SALARY AND BONUS SYSTEM USED BY AIG AND GIVE YOUR REASONS FOR AN ETHICAL JUSTIFICATION OR NOT.
-----------------
AIG is a bad example in the case for representing the difference between the two ethical systems for the reason that these action reflect tenets of neither system. 

It does not reflect utilitarianist ethics because aig did not have the merit to assign these funds because it did so excessively and not solely for reasons described in that system, also this means implicitly that these employees were not merited to receive these funds.

It does not reflect ethics of virtue because aig knew that it was using funds given by the public for things that were not related to the workings of aig. 

Since they were able to do this until up to the point that they needed bailout, it is not clear whether they knew what they were doing or if this outrage was an example of social backlash. If not latter, then responsibility for aig's actions fall partly on the economics part of the government to present valid reasons that this problem was not being addressed or even noticed.

This action relates directly to the actions of aig and also represents neither utilitarian or principled ethics.

Miss, can i have all the responses i sent emailed back to me so that i can add them to my records?

Week 4:

Chapter 3 of the text opens with an extensive discussion of Walmart and the many issues which it has faced in recent years (in spite of its huge profits).  The issues involve emplyee benefits and wages, unpaid overtime, discrimination against women, exploitation of Third World workers,  among other complaints.
The chapter goes on to give several models for corporate social responsibility.  The first is the "Economic Model", designed and defended by the famous economist, Milton Friedman.  Please read this "business is for profit" argument carefully and then scan at least one of the other models presented.
Finally, read the quote from Theodore Levitt on p. 75, and then 
PRESENT A CRITIQUE OF WALMART ON AT LEAST ONE OF THE POINTS MENTIONED IN THE FIRST PARAGRAPH ABOVE.  YOUR CRITIQUE CAN BE POSITIVE OR NEGATIVE, AS YOU SEE IT IN THE  LIGHT OF FRIEDMAN'S (OR ANOTHER ECONOMIC)  MODEL PRESENTED.
---------------
Week 5: Assignment
---------------

Week 6:

What does it mean to say that one's identity is determined by work?
I would say that it i true that part one's identity can be given by the type of work that you do. For instance, Hank may be regarded differently if he was an architect versus if he was a wood worker,
or if he was an geophysicist versus a marine biologist. People who occupy different jobs are expected more to act in those different ways. For instance, one may not want to ask a geophysicist ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿about coral reef chlorination, despite how well he knows or for how long he has worked in this subject.

What is the difference between work and a career?
Work is more temporary and disposable than a career. Careers tend to fulfill more complex or important tasks. Careers also usually require more time and patience to earn than work. For instance, there may be such a thing as a career dishwasher or a career barista, but careers in business administration are held much longer and are rewarded with much more benefits such as social status, and often require more certifications.

Why should someone like Bill Gates continue to work?
Bill Gates should continue to work because he is a very lucky and gifted man, and his great provisions will continue to benefit many others no matter what he does. (unless it somehow affects his entity)

What human potential can be fulfilled through work?
A human (or any sort of being) can receive fulfillment of purpose, brain exercise, love from duty and responsibility, and access to others from being able to work.

What is the difference between good jobs, great jobs, and meaningful jobs?
The differences between these may depend on the person. For instance, the job of an emt worker may not be a great one because it is a lowly job that does not pay well, but it may be meaningful since it provides crucial life saving interventions. Otherwise, it may be a great job because that person prefers to have this job. Otherwise, the job of a lawyer may be meaningful because it upholds the law, great because it provides wealth and status, and good because his parents were also lawyers.

Week 8: Second Case

Week 10

The topic to solve was that i am a human resource manager and i must write a recommendation for one of two candidates for promotion to sales marketing manager.

the criteria i would use are:

how many years have these persons been employed here?

how many years have these persons studied on this subject?

how many outstanding tasks did each person accomplish during this time?

for how many years did each candidate retain each of these or other relevant merits?

what are each candidates investments in the company (time, money, friends)?

these questions and all their logical counterarguments are taken into consideration if i am to write a recommendation for advancement in the company.

i know that these questions are legal and ethical because they gauge each persons interest in the company and their specific company roles.

Also, as a human resource officer, i know that my role alone does not distinguish me enough to make decisions based on pure ethical merit, and that i myself would not be an arbiter of 

such criteria by my own judgement. the decision to recommend either one of these candidates would also depend on influence from interests of those people in the field at that time.

i also notice that one of the candidates is described as a caucasian female, but it does not describe which type of caucasian she is. 
for instance, is she a caucasian of the northern highlands, or was she born in namibia?
*not enough information for proper apa citation.

Week 11: Final Exam

1.  How would you answer someone who asked: "Why should I study ethics if I want to be an accountant?" (Ch. 1)
2.  What standards should be used to establish a fair wage?  Or, what factors determine what someone deserves for wages? (Ch. 2)
3.  How would you describe the managerial philosophy of Walmart; what do you see as the aims, values and goals of Walmart? Are they ethical? (Ch. 3)
4.  What factors other than wages would influence you to change jobs? to take a job? to quit a job?  (ch. 5)
5.  Explain two reasons why the lowest price might not be ethically the best price. (Ch. 8)
6.  What issue that was discussed in the course seems to you to have the most importance to  your present or possible future in business? and why.

Week 12:

The issue is really sustainability versus profit versus the environment. Can a given company turn profits while also balancing the other two?

when it comes to answering this question, the patagonia outdoor clothing and merchandise company takes the most extreme stance and gives the easiest answer.

as a clothing company, their focus is environmental protection. as a result, the company maximally supresses its ability to make profits or make goods in a fiscally sustainable fashion.

as a result, Yvon Chouinard, the head of Patagonia Sportswear maintains Black Diamond as its major competitor.

Learning lessons from the disputes between Apple and Microsoft, Chouinard responded to a bankruptcy by selling 900K of liquidations to a long time friend Peter Metcalf.

Metcalf used these funds to open the Black Diamond Outdoor Sports and Apparel Company, the same line of business as Patagonia Sportswear.

To this date, although Black Diamond is Patagonia's leading competitor, it is obviously lacking in the field of environmental protection.

Maintaing a total revenue of 600M, Patagonia has founded 6 different environmental protection ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿initatives and supports such initiatives from other companies.

The company has lost profits for the sake of promoting environmental sustainability by generously donating funds to theirs and other causes, and seeing to their specifying standards of

waste disposal, factory construction, product development, and materials sourcing.



Wang, Jennifer. Patagonia from the Ground Up. May 12, 2010. November 28, 2016. Entrepreneur. Web. https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/206536 